---
layout: note
description: "Éxito"
---

Éxito: Del lat. exĭtus 'salida'.
1. Resultado feliz de un negocio, actuación, etc.
2. Buena aceptación que tiene alguien o algo.
{: .element-related }

Éxito: Esa palabra que siempre va entrecomillada. Que cada cual defina qué
significa tener éxito en la vida, a mí me gustan estas dos definiciones.

> When I was 17, I read a quote that went something like: "If you live each day
> as if it was your last, someday you'll most certainly be right." It made an
> impression on me, and since then, for the past 33 years, I have looked in the
> mirror every morning and asked myself: "If today were the last day of my life,
> would I want to do what I am about to do today?" And whenever the answer has
> been "No" for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.

[Commencement Address 2005 Stanford University][1]{:target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"}, Steve Jobs.


> For I have a single definition of success: you look in the mirror every
> evening, and wonder if you disappoint the person you were at 18, right before
> the age when people start getting corrupted by life. Let him or her be the only
> judge; not your reputation, not your wealth, not your standing in the
> community, not the decorations on your lapel. If you do not feel ashamed, you
> are successful. All other definitions of success are modern constructions;
> fragile modern constructions.

[Commencement Address 2016 American University of Beirut][2]{:target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"}, Nassim Taleb.


[1]: https://youtu.be/UF8uR6Z6KLc
[2]: https://youtu.be/Fzmr3urk28I
