---
layout: post
title: Success
description: That word that should always be in quotation marks.
tags: en
---

Success:
1. the achieving of the results wanted or hoped for.
2. something that achieves positive results.

"Success" is a word that should always be in quotation marks as its definition
varies from person to person. Let everyone define what it means to them in life.
I personally like the following definitions.


> When I was 17, I read a quote that went something like: "If you live each day
> as if it was your last, someday you'll most certainly be right." It made an
> impression on me, and since then, for the past 33 years, I have looked in the
> mirror every morning and asked myself: "If today were the last day of my life,
> would I want to do what I am about to do today?" And whenever the answer has
> been "No" for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.

—[Commencement Address 2005 Stanford University][1]{:target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"}, Steve Jobs.

---

> For I have a single definition of success: you look in the mirror every
> evening, and wonder if you disappoint the person you were at 18, right before
> the age when people start getting corrupted by life. Let him or her be the only
> judge; not your reputation, not your wealth, not your standing in the
> community, not the decorations on your lapel. If you do not feel ashamed, you
> are successful. All other definitions of success are modern constructions;
> fragile modern constructions.

—[Commencement Address 2016 American University of Beirut][2]{:target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"}, Nassim Taleb.

---

> To laugh often and much;
>
> To win the respect of intelligent people  
> and the affection of children;
>
> To earn the appreciation of honest critics  
> and endure the betrayal of false friends;
>
> To appreciate the beauty;
>
> To find the best in others;
>
> To leave the world a bit better, whether by  
> a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition;
>
> To know even one life has breathed  
> easier because you have lived.
>
> This is to have succeeded.

—What is Success? Ralph Waldo Emerson.

---

> There are no secrets to success: don't waste time looking for them. Success is
> the result of perfection, hard work, learning from failure, loyalty to those for
> whom you work, and persistence.

—Colin Powell.

---

> Success is neither magical nor mysterious. Success is the natural consequence
> of consistently applying the basic fundamentals.

—Jim Rohn.


[1]: https://youtu.be/UF8uR6Z6KLc
[2]: https://youtu.be/Fzmr3urk28I
