---
layout: note
description: "New representations of thought"
---

New **representations of thought** — written language, numerals, mathematical
notation, data graphics — have been responsible for some of the most
significant leaps in the progress of civilization, by expanding humanity's
collectively-thinkable territory.


##### Definition

A *representation* captures some aspect of a concept or phenomenon in a
human-understandable form, thereby enabling a person to perceive and think
about it.

For example, a piece of music can be represented as a verbal description or as
a page of music notation (*symbolic*); a waveform plot or spectrograph (*visual*);
an audio recording or click track (*aural*), the pattern of finger movements
while playing the piano (*tangible*), or the experience of walking around an
orchestra (*spatial*).


##### Parables

* Before the 14th century, multiplication was considered a highly abstract
  concept, only for the mathematical elite. Once place-value Arabic numerals
  replaced Roman numerals, multiplication and division became mundane. It was
  this representation which made universal **arithmetic literacy** possible.

* Before the 17th century, mathematical calculation was described in prose. The
  invention of algebraic notation made mathematical structure visible, and
  allowed for abstracting beyond numbers. This representation was the birth of
  **modern mathematics**.

* Before the 19th century, data was presented in tables. Playfair invented the
  data plot. Without this form of representation, modern **scientific discovery
  and communication** would be inconceivable.

* Faraday's representation of magnetism as "lines of force" inspired Maxwell's
  theory, which he wrote as twenty differential equations. Heaviside invented
  the language of vector analysis specifically to rewrite Maxwell's equations
  in four simple lines. This representation was the birth of **electrodynamics**.

* Dalton's elements were a grab-bag, with no coherent framework or predictive
  power. Mendeleev found a way to represent the patterns of chemical
  properties with a "periodic table". This representation enabled, for the
  first time, a theory of **chemistry**.


##### Why representations matter

These representations weren't mere scientific "discoveries". Each of them essentially
*enabled all subsequent scientific breakthroughs thereafter*. A powerful new form of
representation affects everything, forever.

[Research agenda and former floor plan][1]{:target="_blank"}, Bret Victor.


[1]: http://worrydream.com/cdg/ResearchAgenda-v0.19-poster.pdf
